Interview with Dr. Harrison. Today's date is
January 29th, 1981. This is Terry Anderson. This
is a test. So this is an interview with Dr.
Harrison, a graduate of the first class of
veterinary medicine in 1920. Today is January
29th, 1981. And I'd like to ask you first if we could
start this interview by... you agreeing to donate
the tape to texas a m university will you agree to
that yeah yeah okay thank you thank you very much
could you tell us about your early years let's
start with uh where and when you were born i was born
right in brown up here on the hill really yeah in a
two-story house and uh i've gone and see
uh I mean, you know, you get caught sometimes, you
can't think of a thing. I know, I know, I know. Can
you tell me about your parents? Well, both of them
are dead. Yeah? My father's dead and my mother's
dead. My mother died
seven years after Papa died. And what did they do?
They were medicine doctors. Oh, they were medical
doctors, both your mother and your dad? No, no, no,
no, no. She was a housekeeper. Mm-hmm, mm-hmm. She
was strictly a housekeeper, and she had seven
children. No, five children. Five children. Five
children. That's a pretty good-sized family. And
your dad, your dad was a, your father was a medical.
Well, he graduated at University of Vanderbilt.
Oh, really? Vanderbilt. Okay. And was he just a
general practitioner? Well, that's all they had
here then. That's all they need now. It's good
general practitioner fellows to go that when they
call, they'll go. But they won't do that now. They
want to meet them at the hospital. And you get them
in the hospital, and of course, it's easy to
diagnose a case in the hospital, tears it out at the
home. But if you're well-practiced and
well-versed, well, it doesn't make any
difference, because outside of a blood test, you
can tell pretty well what's going on with them.
Okay, okay. Could you tell me about your early
years growing up in Bryan? Well, yeah, I could do
it. I went to high school right up here on the hill,
right up here. But it is now the high school now. Let
me see. Where is the high school? It's between here
and college. Yeah. It's the high school now. And it
was built. The architect was an A&M graduate. And a
small fellow about your size. What were your
favorite topics in high school, do you remember?
Topics, what do you mean? Subjects. What did you
like to study then? Oh, well,
I wasn't interested in anything but athletics.
You were interested in football. In football,
yeah. And football and baseball and basketball.
All three of those. And track, I ran track two. What
type of races did you run? I ran the 200 and 440 and a
mile.
Why did you decide to go to Texas A&M? I went to Texas
A&M strictly to play football. I always wanted to
play football, and I always wanted to make a letter
after A&M, and I did so. By determination. I was
little. I didn't weigh 135 pounds, 135, 36 pounds.
And that's all I weighed the whole time I was at A&M.
That is small for a football player. But when I hit
them, they knew they were hit. Did you get a
scholarship? No, they didn't have any such thing
as scholarships then. We went to school because we
wanted to go and wanted to go there.
We didn't know what scholarship was. And don't
know what it is now. A lot of the boys at A&M College
don't know what it is. But they find out when they
get out. You were in the Corps of Cadets, of course,
back then. Oh, yeah. I was Captain of the Sea
Company and one of the honors that they had there at
A&M in the Company C. Company C. I didn't have that
until I went back to school my senior year. I went
back as a freshman. What I mean by that, I went back
without any designation at all. But I was not very
long or two or three days before I was made a captain
of Company C. And I went to the president and told
him that I didn't, the man that they had at Company C
was a friend of mine and I didn't feel like that. I
said, take your job. But he said, well... What did
the president say to that? Well, he said, well, you
got it, didn't you? I said, I did, but I didn't ask
for it. And he said, since you have it, well, then
you're going to keep it. And I said, all right, sir.
That's the way you feel about it. That's all I mean.
I had to call. I said, now, you call all the seniors
together and have them talk to them and tell them
why I took that
job. And he did. He called them and had it right
after lunch. And I worked there 15 minutes. Bazell
was the president
of the school and
he was from Navasola. And he was followed by a man
from Navasola.
What did you think of Bazell? Oh, I liked him very
well. But Bill was a good man. He went from Texas, he
was here about 11, 12 years, and then he went up to
Oklahoma. He saw his, you know, when a man's at a
place that's certainly time, it's time for him to
move on. He ought to. What he does not, he ought to
move on.
And so I went around and saw him, talked to him. And
he was tickled
to death before I came by. They all called me Chick.
I had a nickname and they followed me from here. Why
did they call you Chick? Well, it's a long story.
The main thing was that my father took my brother
and I to Houston.
Got there where we had breakfast, actually,
because we left on a four o'clock train. And we went
right across the street to the old batter's hotel
and had dinner, had supper, or had breakfast. I get
it after a while. And so
they asked me what I wanted. I said, well, what I
want is chicken. He said, they don't serve chicken
for breakfast yet. I said, I can't have that. I
said, you asked me what I wanted, and that's what I
want.
But I can't get it, so I'll take some mayonnaise. He
said, it'll be fine. You got that, I know. And he
said, yep, you got that. And so from then on, I was
called Chick. Oh, really? And then on I was called
to, my father went to school at A&M too. Yeah, he
went there one year. And he graduated, he didn't
graduate from that, but he graduated in medicine
in 91.
And he began practicing, he got married, and
mother, she was,
her first husband was a conductor. He was a
conductor on a train. And he was killed by a
Mexican. By a Mexican that got on a train, he told me
he didn't have a ticket. And he said, well, if you
don't have a ticket, you can't go. He said, I'm
going. He said, no, you're not either. And so he
just pulled out a gun and shot him and killed him.
Well, that's terrible. And so I don't know what
kind of make much difference or what. whether they
did anything to the Michigan Nine, I guess they
did, because they were looking for something, a
good bed to sleep in, and three meals a day is what
they were looking for. What about your interests
besides sports at A&M? Were you particularly
interested in any professors or any subjects? Oh,
I got along with all of them. I got along with all of
them. I knew them all. except the new ones that came
in there. I can, you want the names of the
professors? Well, if you remember them. Oh, I
remember them. Oh, well, okay. One of them was a
little Jew, and he was graduating, he taught from
college. And so he, when
We all finished. Four years. Eighteen was in the
class. They started out and only four graduated.
And they either dropped out or they quit or
something. But anyhow, there were four. And those
four were a fellow by the name of Murray and a fellow
by the name of Murray and... Hall and Rosenberg.
Roseburg and Hall and- Hall and Murray. Well,
Fritz Murray was one of- Right. Yeah, four of them.
Four graduates. And they all lived but me.
Murray used to be at- was a- died at Taylor. Can you
tell me about these classmates of yours? What kind
of people they were? We don't have much
information on them. We have their pictures, and
that's about all. Well, Merle got that phone.
Well, yeah, Merle, he was from, he was a foreigner.
He came here to go to school.
Was he from England or Germany? No, he wasn't from
any place. He was from... What was he now?
He was about 40 years old when he came there. Oh,
really? I didn't know that. Oh, yeah. He talked
funny and he used to take care of the children for
the professors when they wanted to go out at night.
They'd call them up and see if he was going to be busy
that night. If he wasn't, well, they'd harm. And
they would harm to stay there with the children and
look after the children until 11 o'clock or 12
o'clock when they came back.
That's the way he did that all four years when he was
a senior on now. What kind of person was Murray? He
was a nice fella. He got along with everybody. Very
nice fella. He would Oh, well, he was very nice. All
I can say, I'm not much on describing a man, saying
what a man can do. What about Joe Hall? Well, old
Joe, he was from Carthage, Texas. He's dead. As I
said, they're all dead now. And he was very good. I
don't think he had a book while he was at A&M. He went
to class and paid attention in class. And he was
able to graduate without buying a book. Now he
bought a book and used library one. I don't know
which. But anyhow, he graduated. You thought he
was very smart then? Oh yeah, he was smart. Joe was
very smart. And he had a sister that was going to,
while he was going to A&M, his sister was going to
CIA.
That's up above Dallas. And what about Rosenberg?
Rosenberg was, he was, he was a
father was, went broke during the Depression, the
first Depression we had, you know. And he was a
cotton buyer. He dealt in cotton and he lost all his
money in the cotton. He bought cotton and bought
futures. And, you know, you buy futures. Sure.
They go down, well if you don't have money to pay
them, they don't care a thing about it. They just
sell it and get what they have in it. And so he sold,
his father was a very prominent man in the place he
lived. What kind of student was Rosenberg? He was a
very good student. All four of them were very good
students. They all graduated at A&M
and
I guess that's about all I can say about him. He was a
very good student, all I can say. Being in the very
first class of the vet school, Did you think that
there were any special pressures on you or any
special ideas about what veterinarians were
supposed to be because you were the first class? Do
you think that the professors treated you any
differently? No, they didn't. They treated me
just the same as everyone else. Why did you decide
to go to vet school? because they didn't have any,
that was before they had to, you know, classes set
aside for medicine. And so I decided that since
they didn't have any out there, I wanted to go to
A&M. And since they didn't have any out there,
well, I went ahead and took back medicine because
it was the only thing that I knew that I could take
that, that would help me in a few years. And it did
help a whole lot. And then later on you decided to go
to medical school. Four years later I decided to go
to medical school. In between time I worked for the
state. I was with the Livestock Sanitary
Commission in the wheat building. It's torn down
now and I haven't been back there since then. And
what did you do? I went all over Texas. I had a
regular pass, I'd buy the tickets myself, and buy a
book of tickets. And when I, the state would
furnish them. And I'd go out, I told the head, the
state veterinarian to keep me out of the office all
he could.
I didn't want to, since I was on a salary and was
being paid by the month, that I was, I could keep my
money in the bank a lot easier than I could if I had it
in my pocket. And so you traveled around Texas, and
what did you do? I went out and was like a
veterinarian. Went out and saw the animals, a
bunch of them. I saw them and saw if they were dying
from an infectious disease. Well, if I could get
the vaccine, I'd get it and vaccinate the cattle
for them. I see. The first job I had, I was... It was
set down in the town, it was down in Brackettville.
And I stayed there three months. And I slept in a
courthouse and took a bath in a jail. Really?
Because there wasn't any hotel? There was a hotel,
a 32-story old building that a color woman had for a
hotel, but that's about all. But they had a post
there. And the Army had a post there. And I heard
that they were
going to take the horses out on a trip. And I said,
no, you're not. I went over there, and he said,
yeah. I said, well, we're going to take the horses
on a trip. And I said, you can't move those horses
now. You can ride them around town all you want to.
But as far as moving them and taking them out of the
city limits,
you're not going to do it. Because if there's any
such thing as infectious disease, that's bad, and
they were right in the midst of an anthrax
epidemic. You know how anthrax works.
He didn't like it very much, but I told him, I said,
he said, how are you going to stop me? I said, well,
if you just try it, I'll show you. Because it won't
take me 15 minutes to get the telephone and call
Austin. And from Austin, I can get a man here in 24
hours that will stop you. And that won't give the
permission for you to take the horses out of the
stable and take them out in the field.
So were those horses eventually destroyed then?
We didn't do anything at all. We just vaccinated
them and that's it. I see. Were there times During
these four years when you would have to destroy a
herd? No, no, no one did have to destroy a herd.
Good. No one did have to destroy a herd. A herd meant
most of cattle. Yeah. No, no, no one did have to
destroy a herd. I had to interview the horses I had
to. Excuse
me. Okay.
Besides going around the state and vaccinating
cattle and horses during those four years when you
were a veterinarian for the state, did you do other
things? No, no. I didn't do other things. I didn't
have time to do other things. But I mean that was
your main job. That was the main function of that
job. The main job. They called into the state at
Fort Worth and talked to the state veterinarian
and he would get a job, whatever he wanted me to do. I
wasn't scared. I was raised with horses and cows,
and I wasn't scared of them. Now most of the men that
were there, well, they said they wasn't, but they
were. They were scared, and it was pretty hard to
get them to go. But I always wanted to go. And so it
wasn't going to be a bit in the world.
Why did you decide to get out of veterinary
medicine then and go to medical school? Why did you
decide that changed in your life? Well, I always
wanted to be a doctor. Why was that? Because my
father would. But I wanted to go to A&M. And when I
got through A&M, I had to have the money to go to
medical school, so I had to work four years and make
the money and save it. And at the end of four years,
well, I had enough. And what I saved
put me through the medical school. I see. Because I
didn't spend anything for foolishness. And
where'd you go to medical school? I went to
Dallas to Baylor. Why'd you decide on Baylor?
Well, it was, I thought, one of the best schools in
medicine. And I wrote other places.
I was accepted, but I didn't go. I wrote back and
told them I decided to go to Baylor. And Baylor was
close to Fort Worth, and Fort Worth was where my
home was. That wasn't my home, right here. But I
lived there in Fort Worth, so I knew Dallas pretty
well. And so when I went to medical school, had to do
was look around and find a place to live. And I went
to the furniture people here in town and they were
very nice to me and gave me a letter to the manager of
one of the
places I could purchase the desired furniture
that I wanted.
I was all fixed up. Okay. Now, do you remember in
1916 when you were admitted to the vet school, do
you remember what the entrance requirements were
like or anything like that? Were you interviewed
by professors here? No, no. We didn't have any
interviews. They all knew me and it wasn't
necessarily much. They knew more about me than I
did about the school. But they didn't have any
interviews at all. I don't know whether they have
them any now or not. Well they did for a while, but
they did for a while in the 30s and 40s and 50s, but
now there's so many people that want to go to vet
school that they don't interview anymore. When
you were in the Corps, remember when you were in the
Corps, we had a housing shortage. at Texas A&M
during the 19-teens. Were you living in a tent
then? Do you remember? Did you live at home? Oh, I
remember tents. Do you remember the tents? Oh,
yeah. Yeah, I remember them very well. They was all
lined up on one side of Main Street, what we called
Main Street, the street that led from the from the
station up to school was the main road. Then they
had the tents lined up there. Did you live in a tent
or did you live at home? No, I stayed out in Colorado
four years.
I lived in one of the halls. Leggett Hall and Milner
Hall and Foster Hall. I bet you living in the tents
was a pretty rough life. Well it wasn't so rough. It
was warm and we burnt wood then. Right, yeah. And
the boys would, they would use the three to the room
and they had large tents. I believe they were
fourteen to twenty, I believe they were, but they
were just one room. And three lived in those tents.
Oh yeah, I was here very well, but living here made
it, made them close to me to get to. made a lot easier
probably. Well, it did. I knew it. I knew the school
and knew the professors. Right. Did your dad know
the professors over there pretty well because he
was a medical doctor and had contact? Oh yes, he
knew the main ones. He knew Dean Francis, the head
of school, and Mark Stella was
was
the chief
medical man. He taught us the diseases of
ambulance and he also had the,
I guess you'd call it the dispensary.
So he had all the boys. Well, let's talk about those
teachers who were the ones who really established
the vet school back in the 19-teens. Can you tell us
about Mark Francis? Well, Mark Francis came there
from Ohio State. He graduated from Ohio State, and
he came directly from Ohio State to A&M, and they
didn't have vet medicine at A&M. I think that was
one reason why they developed the School of
Veterinary Medicine.
So he taught anatomy. What kind of teacher was he?
Oh, he was a very good teacher. Very good teacher.
Was he a hard or an easy grader? Do you remember?
I just don't know. I can't answer that question
very well. He wasn't hard on the students or
anything like that, but he'd take it in the
foosters. And if they had any foosters about them,
he'd pick them out and tell them to either quit the
foosters or leave school.
Those that couldn't take it were left and those
that could take it were quit it and they stayed. As
long as they was able to pass the work. Now did you
like him as a person? Did you think he was a nice
person to know? Well, he was a man that
Now we're talking about the dean.
He was a man that
was very
likeable to the boys. He would know them and how to
do it and something like that and then go on. He
wouldn't stop and talk and so forth and so on. And he
was hard of hearing and that's another reason why
he was